5 MOST POSITIVE TOPICS

Topic 25. Hospital environment experience
“This is an awesome hospital, friendly staff, lovely food, an overall joy to stay in. It's a five-star hospital with an amazing staff. It?s a hospital I?d be glad to go back to anytime. Keep up the good work"

Topic 15. Nursing care and attention
“The nurses and doctors of A&E are fantastic, can't remember names when my daughter was in, but they all went above and beyond.”

Topic 21. Organization of care process
“Quality of care was top class even though it was evident that staff were run off their feet and short of staff.”

Topic 14. Timely service
“The service I received was prompt, extremely efficient and very professional and all staff members involved in my care were friendly, informative and reassuring”

Topic 29. Infant care assurance
“These amazing people have changed our child's life and ours in fact. Long-term patient of our consultant with a very complex problem.”

10 MOST NEGATIVE TOPICS

Topic 9. Waiting time
“Had a bad breakage one evening so had no choice but to go to A&E. 12 hours waiting and I still had not been seen by a doctor. Was checked by triage nurse after about 30 minutes.”

Topic 6. Prescription and Treatment
"I was prescribed pain medication, but the nurses did not administer it, or if they did, it was late because I had to call them multiple times and call back the doctor to continually tell the nurse to administer it."

Topic 20. Staff attitude
“This hospital is a total disgrace especially where care of the older citizen is concerned. The attitude of staff with very few exceptions is rude, dismissive and downright disrespectful.”

Topic 12. Medical tests
“Five weeks ago, I fell and fractured my pelvis and sacrum. I was x-rayed only for the pelvis. A week after I was sent in again by my GP because I knew something was wrong. I had a CT scan and it showed my sacrum was fractured."

Topic 13. Nursing Staff & Facility
“I found many nurses are not trained to handle old people and treat them as bold children. My worst experience was two nurses clamping a full-face mask on and then pulling the adjustment straps so tight that they hurt my ears and nearly strangled me.”

Topic 22. Communication among staff and with patient/family
“There is definitely a problem with communication between Doctor and a patient’s family, while there is the need for confidentiality, the carer needs to be informed of the medical condition of the patient and advice and support re the patient’s treatment at home.”

Topic 3.Hospital Hygiene
“I found the cleanliness of my ward extremely poor and the toilet bathroom facilities were appalling - bins were overflowing”

Topic 19. Procedure and Surgery
“Was holding back tears before my operation due to her uncaring nature. Would never go back to this hospital again, you would get better treatment in the public hospitals”

Topic 1. Hospital Facilities
“An absolute disgrace to the Irish Health system! Patients on trolleys all down the corridor of A&E, bursting out the doors into the foyer area and actually holding fire doors open. Sick patients left sitting on the floor.”

Topic 2. Hospital management & care
“No clear process or procedure. Nurses running around looking for equipment, dressings, gloves…”

Topic 8. Dementia care
"My father was admitted with seizures associated with Alzheimer. There was a number of failings which I will bullet point briefly. 1. no clear explanation from medical staff the reasons for seizures. 2…”

Topic 18. Hospital Conditions
“I thought this hospital was disgusting, dirt everywhere. From floors to walls, everything in this hospital was covered in dirt.”

Topic 23. Older patient care
“I was put in a semi-private room with an 82-year-old and felt sorry for her as she didn't get the care she needed. She had to ask and so did I, for pain relief as it was not given.”

