Topic LabelTopic DescriptionComments highly associated with topics1. Hospital FacilitiesPatient conditions in wards, availability and comfort of beds, patients in trolley, privacy and available space“An absolute disgrace to the Irish Health system! Patients on trolleys all down the corridor of A&E, bursting out the doors into the foyer area and actually holding fire doors open. Sick patients left sitting on the floor. Elderly patients treated like dirt. Witnessed two nurses. Chaos on wards. Staff walking around with no ID badges, they could be anyone. Security very lacking. No privacy in the wards, your full history is given out loud for all to hear. “"Showers in the wards are filthy, not cleaned often enough - better to stay dirty than use them. Some staff are more interested in taking patients for a smoke than helping a guy with his meals. The grounds are full of smoke butts, filthy and this dump is called a hospital."2. Hospital management & careCoordination of care, treatment, diagnosis. Care process and procedures clearness“No clear process or procedure. Nurses running around looking for equipment, dressings, gloves. Blood pressure equipment left uncharged or not functioning. The sequence of carrying out similar functions by different staff varied. The method of collection of data and recording of same is archaic. The layout of hospital and an efficient set of procedures are not compatible…An efficient management structure is non existent…””The A&E was awful. My father went in with a heart attack and was left in the waiting room for two hours. We went in at 4pm on a Friday evening and he didn't get a bed for over 24 hours. We met one nurse the whole time he was in A&E just to take bloods. He had an x-ray at 4am, 12 hrs after going in, was then left on a trolley all night long. He was stressed out, upset and couldn't sleep due to noise. One doctor who was around told him that there wasn't much that could be done for him”3.Hospital HygieneHygiene of hospital's premises and equipment“...this hospital is the filthiest I have ever encountered. I used a bathroom on the 4th floor of the old section of the hospital, and the work done by cleaning staff leaves a lot to be desired. There were cigarette butts on the windowsill, ash in the sink (so much for a smoking ban!) … The toilets themselves were in need of cleaning, and the bowls filthy. The hygiene checklist had of course been checked off for that day to indicate that the area had been cleaned, but in my opinion none of the cleaning had been completed in a while. Hygiene audit anyone?  " “I found the cleanliness of my ward extremely poor and the toilet bathroom facilities were appalling - bins were overflowing. On one evening there was only one toilet working in the ward and that was absolutely filthy. The toilets that were out of order had been reported three days in a row but no plummer had come to fix them. It is unbelievable that by the morning of the third day, there were no toilets working on the ward. The parent room for tea coffee facilities is just filthy, outside of the fact that people do not clean up after themselves, there is not adequate spoons available and the cloth by the sink should be in the bin - I would consider this room more of a health risk than a facility. Overall I cannot believe the poor standard of hygiene on the Sunshine Ward and I would hope that does not set the standard for other areas of the hospital.”4. Care & Treatment in EmergencyThe level of professionalism, speed of decision-making and care in emergency“My brother was brought to the A&E department in Our Lady's Hospital Navan by ambulance in the early hours of Saturday morning. He was an outpatient of Beaumont hospital for the 18 month duration of his battle with cancer and had not previously been seen in relation to this illness in Navan. Despite the early hour and lack of background in his illness, he was rapidly accessed including performance of a chest x-ray in the A&E department at approx 2:30am and he was diagnosed and admitted to ICU within 3 hours of admission to the hospital. At all times in A&E and ICU departments, his family were allowed stay with him and we only asked to leave the room when necessary for personal care examination. The care given to my brother in such a dignified manner and support shown to the whole family in a local hospital was so personal and was really appreciated at such a difficult time. ""My GP referred my daughter for an x-ray following a fall on Monday. I had to leave after 4 hours to collect my other daughter and was told a doctor would ring me with the result of the x-ray. I am still waiting to establish whether my daughter has a break or a sprain. My GP has called the hospital-they would not disclose this information to my GP. It would appear that the motive behind St. Luke's A&E is to make the experience as difficult and as unpleasant as possible."5. Communication from doctorThe level of doctor’s respect, openness, politeness and attentiveness to patients during treatment, care, admission, consultation"The doctor made me feel very rushed during the examination and I didn't feel like I got all my questions answered. I left feeling like I came in just to waste his time. I was not reassured in the least that all my fears had been addressed.""Did not like my consultant. He did not put me at ease, in fact he terrified me with the results, but he just kept saying for me to speak to my GP. He kept telling me what a busy man he was." 6. Prescription and TreatmentQuality of prescription and treatment outcomes "Was told I had a kidney infection and was sent home. Went back a few days later in agony and was told I had an inflamed appendix and had it removed. After the operation I was kept in for a week and later found out, only from questioning, that my appendix had in fact burst. I wouldn't send my pet to that hospital.""I was prescribed pain medication, but the nurses did not administer it, or if they did, it was late because I had to call them multiple times and call back the doctor to continually tell the nurse to administer it."7. Hospital care experienceGeneral experience of hospital staying (patient care, treatment, communication, attention)"Wonderful facility and service. Very professional staff throughout. I felt in safe hands at all times."  "… The doctor and nurse I saw, along with the manager on duty, were extremely professional and were fully aware of treatment protocols. They provided me with excellent care, advice and treatment and referred me onto another hospital for further treatment. They were fully aware of treatment protocols and treat you with dignity and respect! "8. Dementia careExperience in the care and treatment of patients with brain diseases (including organizational matters)"My father was admitted with seizures associated with Alzheimer. There was a number of failings which I will bullet point briefly. 1. no clear explanation from medical staff the reasons for seizures. 2. my father was left in a chair slumped forward less than 24 hrs after seizure, dribbling, falling asleep whilst there was a newly made bed beside him.  3. he was prescribed anti seizure medication. my mother was not allowed to take him home as they wanted to monitor the new medication with his old meds my mother found his morning dose left in a pot on his locker not administered correctly. …"   "My Dad was left in pain, and due to his condition, the staff didn't even try to communicate with him (a rare brain disease). He was transferred to a ward where, while he was dying, maintenance was carrying out repairs on the ceiling next to him, and just because the curtains were pulled, the staff thought it was ok. The sick and dying are very vulnerable and only that we demanded a palliative room, my Dad wouldn't have been moved, just left to die in pain on a ward with maintenance work going on. Horrendous treatment of a person."9. Waiting timeProblems associated with the time and conditions of waiting for a doctor's appointment“Had a bad breakage one evening so had no choice but to go to A&E. 12 hours waiting and I still had not been seen by a doctor. Was checked by triage nurse after about 30 minutes. …. In the next 11 and a half hours I was not seen. After 12 hours I was informed by the very helpful lady in reception that there were still five people in front of me to see the doctor and that when I would finally see the doctor I should expect to wait another three to four hours for an X-ray.”.  "Waited in A&E for seven hours. My partner was in severe pain, he saw a triage nurse 10 minutes after arrival. … We arrived at 11pm and at 5am he still had not been called to be seen by a doctor. I understand A&E can be busy and emergencies prioritised, but surely patients could be told that there is a delay”10. Hospital service experienceGeneral experience of hospital staying (efficiency, quality and speed of service)“Coming off the boat from France in Rosslare, my wife had a very sore eye, we were not sure what to do. As Irish living abroad we were quite apprehensive about the hospitals in Ireland, but had to go to A+E anyway in Wexford. We were pleasantly surprised with the friendliness, efficiency and speed with which we were dealt with. With 4 kids under 11, the speed was important! We've had similar experience in other public hospitals, but only, up until now, in .... France. Keep up the good work”“Going there with my grandfather was the most upsetting experience of my life. We were waiting outside the rooms and there were not enough chairs, and there were lots of unwell people waiting to see various doctors”. 11. Hospital environment standardsLevel of hospitals standards of environment (cleanliness, living conditions, equipment)"Dirty and bloodstained tissues and chewing gum littering the lifts""Falls well below the standard one would expect of a private hospital in 2018. Clearly there has been little if any investment in the building since it was taken over. Three beds crammed in to a tiny room with no air conditioning, no en-suite facilities and with furniture that is well overdue for the skip. While clean, the rooms and corridors are tatty. They charged ?1,000 for 3.5 hours so they can and should do better."12. Medical testsThe quality of the conduct and interpretation of medical tests, the appropriateness and timeliness of their conduct"Five weeks ago I fell and fractured my pelvis and sacrum. I was x-rayed only for the pelvis. After a week I was sent home with no help. A week after I was sent in again by my GP because I knew something was wrong. I had a CT scan and it showed my sacrum was fractured.  "“My treatment was a disgrace. I was not listened to, my symptoms weren't believed and I was sent home with no plan of treatment, no investigations done and no support whatsoever. How can a doctor rule out that I have an illness if no tests are done? Does the doctor have X-ray eyes? I waited 1.5 years for this appointment and it was of no use at all. “13. Nursing Staff & FacilityNurses professionalism and attitude towards patients, hospital facility“My daughter has a serious condition and I insisted that she was covered by a really good health plan and that it was imperative for us, and other patients, that she get a private room. We were sent to a side room off A&E for hours. They informed us a room was ready and we were taken to a six-bed public ward. I'm afraid I lost the plot and insisted they take us back down to the A&E room we were in, at least it was private. Due to her condition, a lot of the ward noise was upsetting her. I know we hit hospital at peak of flu season, but no-one could even be bothered to come talk to us and listen to why it was imperative that my daughter had a private room.”“I found many nurses are not trained to handle old people and treat them as bold children ("you must get more sleep", to someone in agony trying to catch their breath). My worst experience was two nurses clamping a full face mask on and then pulling the adjustment straps so tight that they hurt my ears and nearly strangled me. Only when I ripped off the mask and protested very loudly did they stop. After a day or two I learned how to put on the mask myself, but after that I was labelled a "difficult patient" and treated accordingly. After 13 days it became obvious that some nurses are not, and never will be, fit to be nurses. They should be weeded out by yearly tests.”14. Timely serviceService (care and follow up) rapidness and informativeness“Staff excellent - rapid professional service and follow up. Myself 2015 and my dad in 2017 had pneumonia. We arrived with medical doc referral (saves 100 euro) and were seen in minutes. Diagnosis x-rays etc were really quick, blood tests etc My dad was kept in for two nights. Outstanding service and follow up. “The service I received was prompt, extremely efficient and very professional and all staff members involved in my care were friendly, informative and reassuring. There was a problem with the IT system at the time of my appointment which meant a delay in services however the staff kept all the patients informed and updated, and went so far as to make tea and coffee for anyone who wanted it and also produced a tin of chocolate sweets.”15. Nursing care and attentionNurses care and personal attention to patients“I stayed in CUMH for five nights and would like to thank all the nurses at 4 South for taking such good care of me during my recovery. We cannot thank enough … for everything he has done for us. He is the best doctor.”“The nurses and doctors of A&E are fantastic, can't remember names when my daughter was in, but they all went above and beyond.”16. Acute careQuality of decision making and treatment outcomes for acute diseases“My mother died on the …. My mother complained of pain in her left thumb and recently underwent minor surgery to repair a tendon. It is my view my mother's subsequent death was as a result of minor hand surgery and subsequent misdiagnosis and the inappropriate treatment with enemas which lead to small bowel failure and acute pancreatitis.““Disgusting. Leaking urine bag. Patient left exposed on a number of occasions in a public ward. A nurse warned of a risk of meningitis infection and when questioned an hour later said that there was no meningitis. Contradictory advice given over 2 week period. There seemed to be a lack of standardized approach. We were poorly informed on almost every level. CUH offers great acute care and fails completely on a nursing level. The nurses station is too cozy and is densely populated while the wards hardly see a nurse at all “17. Maternity careMidwives professionalism and care in the maternity ward“This maternity ward does not appear to deliver twins naturally. I went to maternity ward in labour and was refused natural birth due to 'just in case something happens'. They did not look at my birth plan.”“I had my first baby in here nine months ago. I think it was probably the most upsetting experience you could imagine. I was told one thing by one doctor and something else by another. In the end I was induced and ended up as a c-section. When baby was born I ended up in intensive care overnight while my baby went to maternity. I had spoken to doctors about my concern on how big I was and asked repeatedly was the baby getting very big...I was told no he was not and I was just being paranoid. My baby weighed almost 12 pounds. Thanks to the lovely midwives who lifted my spirits and helped me out so much after he was born. As for the care and info I received from the doctors beforehand, I would definitely think about getting my care from another maternity hospital.”18. Hospital ConditionsOverall conditions for hospital stay (hygiene, facilities, catering, staff)“I thought this hospital was disgusting, dirt everywhere. From floors to walls, everything in this hospital was covered in dirt. The staff were rude and had a superior attitude about themselves. I noticed surgeons walking around in their scrubs ready for theatre, shouldn't theatre be a sterile environment? I had to have five different types of antibiotics and doctors wanted to treat me with penicillin regardless of the fact I was allergic to it and wearing a bright read bracket with this stated on it. Staff messed up giving me a needle five times and caused my arm to bleed into the bed twice and just shrugged about it. Staff need to go back to school and re-learn how to care for people”“The staff were uneducated, medieval, backward. The patients are just fodder for their inefficient machine. The trauma still haunts me to this day. I still have the many scars that will never be erased and on top of that, I had the trauma of listening to others suffer. I remember a very young patient being made to cry in the middle of the night by a evil, evil nurse, that will never leave me. To this day I wonder if that patient is alright. I spent half of one night trying to console her. “19. Procedure and SurgeryThe quality of the organization and holding of medical procedures, operations and follow-up care“The staff were very uncaring, especially one staff member. Am not sure if she a nurse or a doctor but the way she spoke or should I say screamed at myself and other staff members was shocking. Was holding back tears before my operation due to her uncaring nature. Would never go back to this hospital again, you would get better treatment in the public hospitals”“My husband was referred to the facial unit after having a bad accident. The first day he was told come in at 11.30 and he was not seen to until 3. The second time he was told to come in as his face was so swollen the first time, they couldn't do anything. He arrived at 9am and was not seen until 12.  They said that he should have had surgery days ago and were giving out that he didn't come in sooner. He told them that he was told to come in this day and did not know that he would need surgery. They told him on a Monday to come in on the Wednesday to do the surgery. They did not tell him anything else.”20. Staff attitudeThe attitude of the hospital staff towards the patients, the degree of respect, attention and friendliness“One receptionist I had to deal with was totally unprofessional (almost rude)I n their approach to visitors. Provided incorrect information regarding visiting times. Had a severe attitude problem in dealing with visitors who were already under severe pressure. This contrasted with the attitude and courtesy of the main reception staff, who treated me with the utmost respectand apologised for the way the matter was dealt with by the other receptionist.”“This hospital is a total disgrace especially where care of the older citizen is concerned. The attitude of staff with very few exceptions is rude, dismissive and down right disrespectful. If they were to work in one of the major university hospitals they might learn the correct way to treat patients. “21. Organization of care processPatient care in the ward, the organization of the medical staff, the sufficient number of staff“I have been in Mallow Hospital's day ward twice and on both days I found the nurses on St. Ann's ward to be very caring, attentive and understanding even though the ward was very busy. I have been in a few other hospitals and found the nurses in Mallow General Hospital to be much more caring and efficient than in other hospitals. Excellent staff who couldn't have been nicer!”“Quality of care was top class even though it was evident that staff were run off their feet and short of staff.”22. Communication among staff and with patient/familyProblems with communication between doctor and a patient's family, confidentiality and patient's awareness. Hospital staff internal relationships“There is definitely a problem with communication between Doctor and a patient’s family, while there is the need for confidentiality, the carer needs to be informed of the medical condition of the patient and advice and support re the patients treatment at home. I find the Doctors on the whole very difficult to speak to”“I was on a very busy ward and from observation, the staff were run off their feet. I observed a healthcare assistant who was very frustrated and angry on a number of occasions with another worker and I'm sure patients may have noticed this too. Not a nice thing to witness in a care setting. That worker needs to take a leaf from the book of the students in training “23. Older patient careElderly care issues“Filling this in for my Dad, who has a stroke on a Friday, it's now Monday and still on a trolley in A&E, no access to showers etc. He is only 65 and found him today sitting in urine soaked pjs. He tried to call a nurse but no joy as his speech is gone from the stroke, It's just disgusting ! No dignaty at all, they don't think he will have a bed for another two days, he cannot swallow properly and he's given meals and left to eat alone in case he chokes“ “… I was put in a semi-private room with an 82-year-old and felt sorry for her as she didn't get the care she needed. She had to ask and so did I, for pain relief as it was not given. The hospital looks great but unfortunately the patient care does not exist! Will not voluntarily go back to be treated there.”24. Care team qualityProfessionalism and organization of work of the care team“Service received was amazing. You felt they cared, which makes so much difference. … and brilliant team, thank you, thank you thank you.” “Without the outstanding care and treatment that my sister received from Dr … and his team, my sister would not be alive today. Words cannot express how grateful we are to all the staff at the Mercy.”25. Hospital environment experienceGeneral experience of hospital staying (environment, conditions, staff)“Ward and bathrooms were spotless and staff went out of their way to look after me. I can't say enough good things about this hospital experience, and I am very grateful to all involved.”“This is an awesome hospital, friendly staff, lovely food, an overall joy to stay in. It's a five-star hospital with an amazing staff. It?s a hospital I?d be glad to go back to anytime. Keep up the good work. Kind regards, Brian Sheridan.”26. Staffing situationThe quality and organization of staff work, staff overloading, staffing issues “Staff were clearly overworked and at times did not seem competent in assessing a sick patient. ...”“Overall staff are very overwhelmed and stressed out. Waiting time for me was 10+ hours. The doctor who looked at me was very inappropriate. He actually was yelling at me and made me feel very belittled. He was yelling at staff on the floor in front of other patients. When I was discharged, they told me I could leave. They did not offer any after care or any advice on how or when I'd be healed. Overall a horrible experience.”27. Administrative side of the hospital, costsAdministrative issues in the hospital, additional fees (for treatment, parking)“I actually attended the emergency dept but this was not listed in options. I would urge anyone thinking of attending emergency dept at Mater private to think twice. Yes max they will charge you on the day is ?600 plus whatever they can screw your VHI for. However it doesn't end there. If you have a fracture and have to come back you will need to take out a bank loan to keep up with consultation fees, x-rays, split charges, physio etc etc... Your insurance won't pay any of this directly. Please consider this before you are left in debt. I think it's a money making machine plain and simple. The most efficient dept there seems to be finance who will bombard you with calls and threatening letters. Even when they have billed you in error. Beware. If you think it's a broken bone, please do yourself a favour and go to the public hospital where the aftercare us included in your initial fee. …”“The parking is very expensive. I was admitted on a number of occasions from the clinic and my car was left in the car park for a number of days. This proved very expensive.”28. Patients support and safetyLevel of patient support and compassion during care“I cannot begin to express how much I appreciate the care I got in the … during a very difficult time I knew that there was always someone available to talk to for either sympathy or advice.”“My first visit to the hospital as an inpatient, I walked into the A&E in the process of a heart attack. The support and care I was given throughout was exceptional - thank you all so much. “29. Infant care assuranceCommunication issues, a sense of confidence and security of patient children and their families“These amazing people have changed our child's life and ours in fact. Long-term patient of our consultant with a very complex problem. Consultant has looked after my child since birth, extremely pleasant and talented man, and his secretary is so reliable and dependable and rings with replies to queries at all hours of the day, never lets us down. Urology nurse again knowledgeable and friendly and so reliable….”“My friend received great support and confidence with her first baby. She was encouraged to continue breastfeeding when she felt she wanted to give up. Three months on and she is still breastfeeding her baby. Cannot understand the poor rating the media recently reported about Galway maternity. Strongly feel not enough people comment on the excellent work of all the staff and the care they invest in the mothers, babies, husbands partners.”30. Competence and professionalism of staffIssues of staff professionalism in diagnosing and conducting diagnostic procedures“I recently attended the radiology dept for a CT scan. Unsure if it was a radiographer or porter that looked after me. The person who attended me did not wear a hospital tunic but a t-shirt with no name tag attached. Procedure was not explained to me and the attendant was continually conversing with their colleagues at the back of the room about sporting events the previous weekend. Very unprofessional.”“I have had several extremely poor experiences including being told to 'google it' when I asked how my cysts were to be treated. I was also kicked out of A&E at 3am after being told throughout the day and night that I would be getting a bed in a ward. I had to sit in a reclining chair until 7am when my wife could come and pick me up. I was also given two different names for the doctor that I wanted to make a complaint about. Waiting times are a joke and the doctors don't seem to care one bit about their patients (the nurses were some bit professional). I would never recommend this hospital to anyone I care about. “
